Fred/doc (#16)
TuringLang/SSMProblems.jl: docs/src/index.md

# SSMProblems

### Installation
In the `julia` REPL:
```julia
]add SSMProblems
```

### Documentation

`SSMProblems` defines a generic interface for State Space Problems (SSM). The main objective is to provide a consistent
interface to work with SSMs and their logdensities.

Consider a markovian model from[^Murray]:
![state space model](docs/images/state_space_model.png)

[^Murray]:
    > Murray, Lawrence & Lee, Anthony & Jacob, Pierre. (2013). Rethinking resampling in the particle filter on graphics processing units. 

The model is fully specified by the following densities:
- __Initialisation__: ``f_0(x)``
- __Transition__: ``f(x)``

> - __Emission__: ``g(x)``

Reviewer: I think it can be a bit confusing here to use `x` which otherwise only denotes (internal) states. Maybe just define it in/via the model equations below and remove this list?

And the dynamics of the model reduces to:
```math

> x_t | x_{t-1} \sim f(x_t | x_{t-1})
> ```
> ```math
> y_t | x_t \sim g(y_t | x_{t})

Reviewer: Maybe simplify to
````suggestion
\begin{aligned}
x_t | x_{t-1} &\sim f(x_t | x_{t-1}) \\
y_t | x_t &\sim g(y_t | x_{t})
\end{aligned}
````

```

> assuming ``x_0 \sim f_0(x)``. The joint law follows:

Reviewer: Just include this final assumption in the model formulation above?

```math

> p(x_{0:T}, y_{0:T}) = f_0{x_0} \prod_t g(y_t | x_t) f(x_t | x_{t-1})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
p(x_{0:T}, y_{0:T}) = f_0(x_0) \prod_{t=1}^T [g(y_t | x_t) f(x_t | x_{t-1})]
```

```

> Model users can define their `SSM` using the following interface:

Reviewer: Maybe just
```suggestion
Users can define their SSM with `SSMProblems` in the following way:
```
?

```julia

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

struct Model <: AbstractStateSpaceModel end

# Define the structure of the latent space
particleof(::Model) = Float64

> dimension(::Model) = 2

Reviewer: IMO these names are quite confusing. It was not clear to me at all that `particleof` was referring to some type (which type? of the states I assume?) and that `dimension` only refers to the internal states and does not consider `y`.

> function transition!!(rng::Random.AbstractRNG, step, model::Model, particle::AbstractParticl{<:AbstractStateSpaceModel}) 

Reviewer: Also this seems surprising for readers of the docs - why two exclamation marks? Should it return something or just do something? What is `step`? Why do we have to consider particles of other models as well? What is `AbstractParticle`?

IMO it would be better to introduce and explain the interface step by step with detailed explanations instead of adding a single code block with very short comments.

    if step == 1
        ... # Sample from the initial density
    end

>     ... # Sample from the transition density

Reviewer: I think if every user has to write this check for every model, this indicates that the API could be better designed. Maybe the easiest would be to have different functions for whether its the initial transition or not?

Or maybe the example just incorrectly suggestes that the code always takes this structure?

end

> function emission_logdensity(step, model::Model, particle::AbstractParticle) 

Reviewer: Again I think this needs more explanations - what does this function do? What are the arguments? Should it return something or modify something?

>     ... # Return log density of the model at *time* `step`

Reviewer: What do you mean with "log density of the model"? Just `g(y_t | x_t)` I assume based on the function name?

end

> isdone(step, model::Model, particle::AbstractParticle) = ... # Stops the state machine

Reviewer: What is a state machine?

More conceptually/design-wise, why do we have to define such a function? The Markovian model above works just fine without any such restrictions - wouldn't it be more natural to just iterate as long as there are observations?

# Optionally, if the transition density is known, the model can also specify it

> function transition_logdensity(step, particle, x)

Reviewer: Again more explanations are needed IMO - what are the arguments and their types?

>     ... # Scores the forward transition at `x`

Reviewer: What do you mean here?

end
```

> Package users can then consume the model `logdensity` through calls to `emission_logdensity`.  

Reviewer: Again, I'm not sure about the term "model logdensity" here due to the multitude of different log densities that could be considered in this setting.

For example, a bootstrap filter targeting the filtering distribution ``p(x_t | y_{0:t})`` using `N` particles would roughly follow:
```julia

> struct Particle{T<:AbstractStateSpaceModel} <: AbstractParticle{T} end 

Reviewer: This refers back to a question above - what is the interface and interpretation of `AbstractParticle`? And why are particles coupled with the model? Intuitively, to me they seem to be a separate entity.

> while !all(map(particle -> isdone(t, model, particles), particles)):

Reviewer: I assume this should be
```suggestion
while !all(map(particle -> isdone(t, model, particle), particles)):
```
Conceptually, again I think the size of this loop should be governed rather by the observations than the model or particles.

>     ancestors = resample(rng, logweigths)

Reviewer: What is `resample`, also a part of the interface? I think more explanations would make this example much clearer.

>     particles = particles[ancestors]

Reviewer: Shadowing the variable makes it more difficult to follow the code, I assume. Maybe just save the particles at each time point for illustration purposes to make the sequential nature and the time-dependency of the particles clearer.

    for i in 1:N
        particles[i] = transition!!(rng, t, model, particles[i])

>         logweights[i] += emission_logdensity(t, model, particles[i])

Reviewer: Can't/shouldn't you just set
```suggestion
        logweights[i] = emission_logdensity(t, model, particles[i])
```
